We've all heard that daily COVID cases are falling nationwide.
Now, we're learning Americans are
growing more optimistic about the fight against COVID.
In a recent CBS News poll, 47% say things are going well,
a gain of 11 points from just last month.
Two major music festivals, Coachella and Stagecoach,
just announced zero COVID restrictions.
That means no mask mandates, proof of vaccination,
or negative tests for entry.
To put it all in perspective for us,
we are joined by Dr. Ashish Jha, Dean of Brown University
School of Public Health.
Good morning.
How are you doing?
I'm well.
Thank you.
All right, so let's get right into it.
Should we be dropping the COVID-19-related restrictions,
mask mandates, proof of vaccinations?
What do you think?
Yes, so we're first of all, in a way better place
than we were even a month ago.
We are.
But infections are down about 80% across the country.
Deaths are starting to fall.
This is a good time to look at all those restrictions and say,
which ones do we really need?
I think mask mandates can definitely get lifted.
I know vaccine mandates are going
to be helpful for the long run, just keeping people vaccinated.
So I think that's a good policy to have.
But certainly, mask mandates, restrictions on gatherings,
I think they can start getting lifted.
Both the CDC director, Dr. Rochelle Walensky
and President Biden both say we should not
be lifting the mask mandates.
Why do you think they are taking that stance?
Well, I think they're be careful.
And look, we always want to be careful in these moments.
So I appreciate what they're both saying.
Infection numbers are still high.
They're coming down, but still high.
Deaths are still high.
So I think what they're probably reacting to is,
let's wait a little bit longer.
And I think I understand that.
My take is, things are so much better
and heading in the right direction
that over the next few weeks, I think it's perfectly reasonable
to pull those things.
that's good news.
Yeah, that is.
But a recent CBS News poll found that most parents
believe that kids should be required
to wear their masks in school.
So how should schools be looking at this?
Yeah, so I'm a parent.
And I-- the way I look at it is if you're
in a community with high vaccination rates,
infection numbers are getting low,
I think it's very reasonable to lift mask mandates in schools.
It's lifting of the mandates, meaning if some parents still
want to send their kids masked, if kids want to wear a mask,
there's no downside to that.
There's no restriction on that.
But I don't know that we need to be mandating it at this point.
Yeah, you know, I was thinking that Sunday,
watching the Super Bowl that we may look back
on that Super Bowl, which felt very normal, I didn't see
a lot of masks in the stands, and think,
that was a milestone in the country's turn away
from the virus.
But what's happening here, Dr. Jha,
is a lot of people are still emotionally-- they're fearful,
right?
They hear about removing these restrictions,
and their body says, whoa, whoa, whoa.
We remember how bad this was.
So what do you say to people who believe in the science,
like you, think you're an authority, but are
like, I'm just uncomfortable, something triggers me?
Yeah, no, I totally understand that.
We've had two years of very, very difficult pandemic.
That's why I've argued for being thoughtful and slow about this.
If people want to take their time--
no one's saying-- if you want to continue
wearing a mask for a little bit longer,
I think that's completely reasonable to do.
The question is, what restrictions
should the government be putting on people?
In that context, I think lifting those restrictions really
does make sense.
And for immunocompromised, parents
of immunocompromised kids, could those kids one way mask--
if all the other kids were no masked, they could have one on.
That'd be OK?
Yeah, I think it would help a lot.
So there's very good evidence that if you
wear a high-quality mask, even if everybody around you
is not wearing a mask, it protects you really well.
So that's one way of course, we're
getting treatments and other things
for immunocompromised people.
That'll help as well.
Break down for us what it means for these children now,
where they've backed off from the Pfizer
or below five years old.
What should parents do in that case?
Yeah, first of all, I know a lot of parents of kids under five
were pretty disappointed by that decision by the FDA
to just hold.
I think it was the right decision.
Look, at the end of the day, we want to be guided by evidence.
And the evidence for a vaccines 5 to 17-year-olds, terrific.
The evidence just not quite in yet for under five.
So what I would say is, good news infections
are coming down.
Continue to be careful.
Let's wait for the good data, the best data
that we can get before we make a decision on kids.
We haven't won this fight against COVID.
But it does seem like a small victory and a step
in the right direction where we're at right now.
To even have the conversation--
Absolutely.
We're in so much better place than where we were.
And the good news is, we're going
to continue getting better.
We're going to have more therapeutics, more vaccines.
I think we're in good shape.
We got vaccines.
We got treatments.
We got immunity.
And we got to go.
[LAUGHTER]
I mean, come on.
Let's have a moment.
It's a good thing.
OK.
All right.
We're having our moment, Dr. Jha, thank you so much.
Thank you.